Israeli forces are escalating attacks on
gaza's southern region of Rafa over
100,000 people have now fled Rafa since
Monday moving North to escape the worst
of the fighting at least two medical
facilities in the South have now shut
down they're sending people North for
help more than 1.7 million Palestinians
have sought shelter and safety in gaza's
Southernmost city for months now on
Monday the Israeli military dropped
leaflets into Eastern parts of Rafa
ordering people to evacuate the Israeli
military has now taken control of both
the Rafa and kabus salm border crossings
preventing humanitarian Aid entering the
Gaza Strip now the area marked in blue
is where Israeli forces are currently
stationed they forc nearly 100,000
Palestinians to flee the southern part
of the strip Han mahmud's in darala
outside Al AA Hospital hanni what's the
situation there as thousands of people
flee Rafa
yes so there more people are actually
leaving Rafa City right now particularly
from the central part of the city as
well as toward the Western the
evacuation Zone that's part of alasi
where thousand of displaced families
have been Sheltering inside the tents
that they set up and inside Presidential
home but as the situations are getting
much worse right now and evolving into
much more challenging and complex uh
situation people are forced to leave it
estimation right now for people who have
already lived the city close to 100,000
people but there are more people are
still moving but right now they're
moving under the use of extreme force by
the Israeli military the Israeli
military within the past uh two days
sent text message and made phone calls
and Dro Bel warning people of staying in
Rafa City despite the fact that the it
stated it oper its operations are only
limited to the eastern part of raah City
but on the ground what we're seeing is
an expansion of the military operations
where more residential homes are being
targeted residential Towers across ra
City are directly targeted by F-16 and
by attack drones as well as public
facilities the fact that we have a
health facility right now that is
completely non operation completely shut
down because it is in the area where
residents local res were ordered to
evacuate there are more reports of the
civilian casualties arriving to the
Hospital the field Hospital toward a
sultan neighborhood as well as the Saudi
neighborhood in the western part of the
city and and more destruction is being
caused according to eyewitness the
eastern part of RA City and very close
to ra Crossing pretty much it cleared it
from any remaining Residential Building
or public facility just make it easy for
the Israeli military to maneuver and to
push deeper inside the city meanwhile
there are more attacks across the gri
more strikes and more artillery Shilling
since early hours of this morning and
honey un agencies I understand a warning
that supplies are running out they could
end up with very little fuel very little
food and water by Friday talk to us
about the situation
[Music]
there well judging you from what we saw
yesterday when we did a report about
people around that desol nation of plant
here in Dar balah City it's the largest
one and but it's not sufficient it it's
not enough for the thousand of displaced
families already in their and the
thousand more who are moving and
evacuating to D B City I think we are
days away from catastrophic situations
similar to what happened in the northern
part of Gaza City not only water is
becoming uh limited right now here but
also another Lifeline for health
facilities across the trip and for the
remaining population is just a fuel that
is much needed right now for the the
hospital in the uh in the in the
southern part in Rafa City for the field
hospital for the Kuwaiti hospital to
sustain their operations without it they
will be forced completely to shut down
their ICU their oxygen stations but also
here as well without the fuel they will
will see a complete shutdown of all
means of life here the water and fuel
represent two major lifelines for people
but they are becoming much more
diminished right now honey thank you
very much indeed H mmud in deral